#Exercise 1e: Formal Draft

- Word limit: ~1000 w.
- Bring a hard copy to class.
- Email a copy to your peer reviewer.

##Text

###The Project

- Your first essay will focus on one passage from David Foster Wallace's essay _Tense Present_. It helps to work on a passage that you feel drawn to or engaged by. Being ‘drawn to’ a text is different from liking or disliking it. In creating a project, you are looking for the feeling that you could help someone read your text more deeply, see it in a new light, or understand something about the text that he or she might have missed.

	- Remember our work on the poem _Sir Gawain and the Green Knight_ on the first day of class: in doing a close reading of two of its stanzas, we drew each other’s attention to details that were more meaningful than they initially appeared to be, and this process generated new interpretations about the poem as a whole. Our goal was to recognize what the excerpt was doing, identify precisely __how__ its language was crafted to accomplish that, and then think about __why__ its author might have made these particular choices. Your work in this essay is very similar: you are seeking to illuminate your text for your readers, not simply to say that it is bad or good, likeable or unlikeable, or right or wrong.

- Essay projects of this kind generally accomplish one or more of the following aims:

	- extend readers’ understanding of a text (“the text is about X, but it’s also about Y”)
	- illuminate a lacuna (“we have a gap in our knowledge and this is how to fill it”)
	- correct a possible misreading (“we may think it’s X, but actually it is Y”)
	- demonstrate the relationship of parts to the whole (“we can’t understand X until we can see Y”)

###The Draft

- As you think about how to shape your draft, __consider your readers__. What will they need to know in order to appreciate the value of your project? You are writing for astute, general readers who may be completely unfamiliar with your chosen essay and subject matter. Your readers are willing to be generous, as long as you give them a sense that your project matters, and that you have crafted your essay carefully to carry out this project.

- __Write a working title and beginning for your essay’s formal draft.__ Beginnings of essays serve two overarching purposes: they establish a relation with your readers, and they invite readers to follow your idea or argument. Somewhere in this beginning, present the project of the author you have chosen, and specify the central claims or questions this writer’s text raises for readers. You will also need to present your __own__ project for this essay: what do you want to illuminate about the text? What gaps or unexplored possibilities do you see in the text, and what do you intend to bring to them? Why would your essay matter to your readers (in other words, what is at stake in your project)?

- __Draft the middle and tentative ending of your essay__. The middle of this essay will focus your readers’ attention on specific passages, patterns, and moments from the text that epitomize what you understand to be most notable about the text. This is your chance to incorporate close readings, to link your claims by citing evidence from different sections of text, and to show what new insights you are bringing to the text.

- __The end of the essay does not repeat the beginning__, but indicates what we ought to understand or see now about the text you’re working with that we hadn’t noticed before.  It can also be a place to consider the broader implications of your project.